Art, before any other measure, is defined foremost, by its viability. It is the duty and the responsibility of the artist
to consider, when he is creating his art, that it is viable. For if it is not viable, then it is not of merit. 
Viability, is, best defined as, the only measure of artistic worth that matters. If an art piece is not viable, then 
it will not succeed, it will not garner any attention, or provoke any thoughts etc. I can not iterate enough-- without 
viability there is truly nothing. 
Once viability has been established, then the artist is free to express within the medium whatever it is he pleases.
Viability is, contrary to what most people believe, hardly a construct of society. Viability is an abstract essence 
that is derived from our natural experience of the world around us. It is from the trees, the flowers, the grass and the sky,
that viability is determined. Not from a critic or a philosopher-- viability is something, I would say, the only thing, that
across all cultures and all artistic mediums, is understood on some level that is more real than conceptual. And viability
is hardly a prison, it is a liberator. It cannot be reasonably argued that a language is anyway restrictive of our natural
thinking and reasoning process, it is only a liberator and a medium of elevated expression.
It is the same with viability. Viability is the only thing that
stands in the way of utter chaos and anarchy of art. Indeed, viability is the innate presence of God that is within us
that walks the line between chaos and between order that is necessary for human beings to reason and communicate any thought.
And, so, we can conclude, that it is the artist who is viable, that has a presence of God within him. For God, is in all manner
of speaking, an entity of viability. 

Let us take a look at art that has no viability. It is often considered that a simple square, or any so called modern or
post-modern expressions of the human condition, are not indicating high levels of viability. Well, we must ask ourselves then,
"what is the measure of viabiliy" is viability a dynamic and ever-evolving essence of the universe? Or is it a static and 
unchanging romantic ideal that which an artist can never hope to obtain. 

Indeed, viability can never be obtained. Not in the mortal realm. It is an ideal that is similar to romanticism, but instead
of fabricated by the ego, it is instead derived from our experience of God. It is a highly spiritual invidiaul who can 
see past the constructs of society and civilization and see straight into the piercing and ever-watching gaze of viability. 
Even more enlightened is the individual who sees past the constructs, but can still express the beauty of God within the
liberating dogma of viability. 

Without viability, we are but animals. It is the one distinction that separates men from beasts. 

